AWS WORKSHOP:
AWS stand for amazon web services..
Key services of AWS:
->EC2
->LAMBA
->S3
->RDS
->CLOUDFRONT
->ROUTE53
aws significance:
netflix or x or bookmyshow will use AWS 
90% of frotune companies will use AWS...
Spotify will also run under the AWs it will deliver the music
pintrest is also he same way related to it which run under AWS
Aws is used by gaming,enterainment,web all run under aws..

Government will run under aws for example the smart cities..
AWS Regions are part of a global network of data centres..

how website work on internet?
your personal computer limited memory and have limited storage so it is unable to storage when you develope the high demand 
web application
so then this can be rectified as high performance server so that huge amount of data can be managed and 
accessed.
servers can be setup in two ways:
convential server:
purchasing and maintaining physical server
cloud computing:
servers are hosted on the internet by cloud service providers..
Cloud computing is a on demand delivery of IT resources over the internet..
it resources are:
database,servers,storage..
Benefits of cloud computing:
infrastructure
cost
scalability
maintenance
setup time
security

the browser finds the ip address of jio cinema and this address is needed to locate the server on the internet.
the browser contacts the jio cinema server and this connection allows data to be exchanged between your device
and the server
the browser sends a request to the server
for the ipl match  this request include details about which video you want to access
server look for database to find information and retrives he data of video.

see basically if you want see the match of usa in india then it would definately take response time so much 
so to reuce it we will b using the CDN Server..
basically it will stores the copies of your contenet on servers around the world.
the browser connects to the closet CDN Server which quickly delivers the stored content.


Key compenents:
Application server are the cloud computers that store and run applications.
they handle operations like processing user request,managing database and storage.

Database:
a cloud database is an online system that stores manages and organize data allowing global access and efficient interaction.
File storage:
file storage is a system that saves organizes the digital files such as documents photos and videos enabiling easy access.
CDN:
system that distributed servers that deliver web content.
DNs:
phonebook of internet

Cloud providers:
->AWS
intially aws offer storage and virtual computing services
later it added database services and cdn serverless computing,ml and ai..
->Google cloud Platform(Gcp)
->Azure(microsoft)

AWS:
Services in Aws are nearly are 200 and basically we consider the main components.
After creating the aws account after that open console:
see regions and select hyderabad o mumbai..

Key AWS Services:
EC2 elastic compute cloud:







